{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\ul\b\f0\fs32\lang9 Module: 14 - Identitiy with window server\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Ans\ulnone - 31\par
\ul 1. Enable Hyper-V Role:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone Open Server Manager > Mange > Add Roles and Features.\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Select Role - based or feature - based installation > choose the server.\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Select Hyper-V from the ist of roles and proceed with the installation.\ul\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Configure Virtual Switch:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone Open Hyper-V Manager > Virtual Switch Manager.\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Create an external Switch to allow VMs to connect to the network.\ul\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 3. Create Virtual Machines (VMs):\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone In Hyper-V Manager , select New > Virtual Machine.\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Follow the setup wizard to configure VM setting like memory , storage , and network.\ul\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 4. Adjust VM Setting:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone Configure additional settings like Dynamic Memory , Processor count , and virtual hard disks.\ul\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 5. Start and Manage VMs:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone Use Hyper-V Manager to start , stop , and  manage VMs as needed.\ul\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Ans\ulnone - 32 \par
\ul 1. Monitor Performence \par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone Open Performance Monitor (found under Administrative Tools).\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Use Performance Monitor to track real-time metrics and add counters for CPU , memory , disk , and network usage.\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Configure Data Collector Sets to log performance data over time.\ul\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Manage Event Logs:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone Open Event Viewer (also in  Administrative Tools).\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone In Event Viewer , navigate throught logs like Application , Security , System , etc., to view event and troubleshoot issues.\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Set up Custom Views to filter and focus on specific events or event types , and configure alerts or automated responses if nedded.\ul\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Ans\ulnone - 33\par
\ul 1. Direct - Atteched Storage (DAS)\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone Storage devices directly connected to a server , such as internal hard drives or external drives.Ideal for standalone servers with limited scalibility.\ul\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Network - Atteched Storage (NAS)\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone Dedicated file storage accessible over a network , allowing multipul user to access files with ease.\ul\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 3. Storage Area Network (SAN)\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone speed network providing block-level storage , typically used in enterprise environment for centerlized and scalable storage.\ul\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 4. Storage Spaces\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone A window Server feature that pools multiple physical drives into a single logical pool , with option for mirroring and parity for redundancy.\ul\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 5. Cloud Storage\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone Integration with cloud services like Azure , allowing for offsite storage , backups , and  disaster recovery.\ul\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Ans\ulnone - 34\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Install file Server the role: Open server manager , go to Add Roles and Features, Select File and Storage Services, then choose file server.\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Create Shared Folders: Use File and Storage Services to create and configure shared folders, setting permission and access control as needed.\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Configure Access Permissions: Set NTFS and share permissions to control access to shared files and folders.\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Enable Advanced Features (optional): Configure quotas, file Server Resource Manage (FSRM), and data deduplication if needed for better managemant and optimization.\ul\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Ans\ulnone - 35\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Install DFS Roles: In Server Manager , go to Add Roles and features and select DFS Namespaces and DFS Replication under File and Storage Services.\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Configure DFS Namespaces: Open DFS Managemant, create a Namespace, and add shared folders to create a single , unified file structure accessible to users.\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Set Up DFS Replication: In DFS Managemant , create a Replication Group to synchronize data across multiple servers, ensuring high availibility and reduandency.\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Manage DFS: Use DFS Managemant to monitor replication, adjust replication schedules, and troubleshoot issues. Access control, referrals, and fault tolerance settings can be adjusted for efficient managemant. \ul\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Ans\ulnone - 36\par
\ul 1. Window Server Backup:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone A feature that allows full, increamental , and bare - mental backups. It can backups. It can back up files , system state, and entire volumes , with scheduing option for automated backups.\ul\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. System Restore And Recovery:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone System state backups and recovery options to restore  the server to a previous state , useful for recovering from system errors or corruption.\ul\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 3. Volume Shadow Copy Services (VSS):\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone Provides snapshots of data on a volume , allow in recovery of previous versions of  files and folders.\ul\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Ans\ulnone - 37\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Install Window Server Backup: Open Server Manager , go to Add Roles and Features , and install Window Server Backup under Feature.\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Open Window Server Backup: Lanuch it from the tools menu in server Manager.\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Set Up Backup: Select Backup Once for a one-time backup Schedule for recurring backups.\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Choose Backup Configuration: Select either full Server to back up all data or custom to select specific files , folders, or volumes.\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Select Backup Destination : Choose a location for the backup , such as a dedicated drive , network share , or external storage.\ul\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Ans\ulnone - 38\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Open Window Server Backup: Go to Server Manager , then Tools > Windows Server Backup.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Select Rrecovery  Option: In the Action Pane , click Recover.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Choose Backup Location: Select where the backup is stored (e.g., local drive or remote shared folder).\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Select Backup Date: Choose the date and time of the backup you want to restore from.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Choose Recovery Type: Select files and folders you want to recover.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul Ans\ulnone - 39 \par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Safe Mode: Boot into safe mode to load essential drives only and troubleshoot issues.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Last Known Good Configuration: Use this option to revert to the last sucessful startup configuration.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Startup Repair: Use Windows Recovery Environment (WinRE) to automatically diagnose and repair boot issues.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Event Viewer: Cheak the event Viewer for errors logs related to startup to identify the cause.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Cheak Hardware: Ensure no hardware issues , such as faulty RAM or hard drive , are causing startup faliurs.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul Ans\ulnone - 40\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Check Physical Connections: Ensure all cables and network devices are connected and powered on.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Verify IP Configuration: Use \ul ipconfig\ulnone  to confirm the server's IP address , subnet mask, and gateway setting are correct.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Ping Tests: Use Ping to test connectivity to other devices on the network , starting with the gatway and DNS Server.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Check DNS Setting: Ensure DNS is configured properly and try \ul nslookup \ulnone to verify DNS resolution.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Diable/Enable Network Adapter: Restart the network adepter or check for drive issues in device Manager.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul Ans\ulnone - 41\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Replication Faliures: Use \ul repadmin\ulnone /\ul repsummary\ulnone  to check replication status. Resolved by verifying network connectivity, DNS configuration, and AD sites and services settings.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Authentication Issues: If users can't log in , check user account settings,  password , and group policies. Ensure domain controllers (DCs) are accesible.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}DNS Problems: AD relies on DNS; use \ul dcdiag \ulnone / \ul test\ulnone :\ul dns\ulnone  to diagones DNS issues. Verify DNS settings, zone files , and ensure DCs are registred in DNS.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Group Policy Issues: Use \ul gpresult/r\ulnone  to see applied policies. Ensure Group Poilicy  Objects (GPOs) are linked and permissions are set correctly, and check for replication delays.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Scheme Mismatches: During upgrades or migrations , use \ul adprep\ulnone  to update the scheme if needed. Verify replication and scheme version across DCs.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul Ans\ulnone - 42\par
1. Task Manager: Check CPU , memory, disk, and network usage to identify resourse - intensive processes.\par
2. Performance Monitor: Use Performance Monitor to track Performance Monitor To track performance counters , such as CPU, memory, disk, I/O, and network , for detailed insighting.\par
3. Resourse Monitor: Access Resourse Monitor for real-time dateon CPU, memory, disk, and network usege , helping to identify bottlenecks.\par
4. Event Viewer: Review logs for warnings or errors that might indicate performance issues.\par
5. Disk Managemant and Defragmentation: Check disk health and perform defragmentation if needed for HDDs.\par
\par
\par
\ul\par
}
 